# Prioritization of Roads using MCDM Approaches - A Case Study of Roads in Sprawl Area of Hyderabad
## (Using Python)

**Abstract:**

Pavements are the key asset for a country’s economic and industrial development. Maintenance of roads is as significant as laying them. Pavements deteriorate as time passes, due to various factors like excessive vehicular stress, sunlight exposure, water intrusion, unequal expansion, contraction due to seasonal changes, etc. Repairing them not only cost extortionate amounts, but also huge time loss. Thus, an algorithm is required, such that it is convenient and flexible enough for the users to input ‘n’ number of factors, in order make optimally informed decisions. The study has aimed to provide a fully flexible, user-convenient algorithm, that can take huge amounts of pavement information and can yield results as ranks, so that user can know which road is to be prioritized in an informed order. 21 road stretches, each measuring 1km are taken in the areas Ibrahim Bagh, Alijapur, Neknampur, Mahalneknampur and Jai hind colony and three Multi Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) methods were integrated namely Fuzzy TOPSIS, AHP and Concordance which were written in Python programming language. Equal weightages are given for all the methods chosen. A sensitivity analysis was also performed on these outputs to understand the level of accuracy from the results displayed. The algorithms provide stretch wise ranks as outputs and furthermore, these ranks were imported into GIS, to display several thematic maps for various factors considered. Finally, the results achieved from the project are almost equal in all the three methods and according to the results furnished, stretch 5 should be given the highest priority, followed by Stretch 12. 
